Assignment # 03: Functions and Data Structure (List)

Objective:
To help you understand:
-	The use and implementation of functions in programming and the execution mechanism of recursive function. 
-	To familiarize with the list Data Structure and its built-in functions in Python

Part 1: Function 
1.	Write a function named “Greetings” that takes user’s name and print greeting.
Output:       Welcome to SMIT training center, Ahsan 
2.	Write a function that takes a number as argument and check if a given number is positive, negative or zero.
3.	Write a function to take two numbers as arguments and return the larger number.
4.	Write a function to take three numbers as argument and return the largest number.
5.	Write a function to take user’s age as argument and return the message from the function whether he is minor, adult or senior citizen:
a.	Minor age is less than 18.
b.	Adult age is greater than 18 and less than 60
c.	Senior citizen age is greater than 60
6.	Write a function to take integer as argument and check if it is even or odd.
7.	Write a function to take number as argument and return the square of that number.
8.	Write a function to compute the area and circumference of the circle and return the computed results.
9.	Write a function to take user’s score as argument and determine if they pass or fail (pass if score is above 60, otherwise fails.)
10.	Write a function that evaluates if an input number is prime.
11.	Write a function to compute factorial of a given number using recursion technique.

Part-2: Data Structures (List)
1.	Create a list to store student data i.e. name, age, course and is_attending. Display each element of list using for loop.
List = [“Tahir”, 44, “AI and Data Science”, True]
2.	Write a code to separate strings, numbers and Boolean data from the above list into separate lists.
3.	Create a list [“apple”, “raspberry”, “pineapple”, “cherry”]. 
a.	 How can you check if apple is present in the list and get the index of the element (if present)
b.	Now replace the raspberry and pineapple with orange.
c.	Insert “apricot” at index 2.
d.	Extend the resulting list with items “car”, “bike”, “aeroplane”.
4.	Write a code to get first and second best scores from the list:
Scores_list = [40, 89, 90, 89, 23, 90, 50]
5.	Create a list [32,54,66,11,77,10,90]
a.	Remove items from the list with values less than 20.
b.	Sort the list in ascending and descending order.
c.	Now, compute the average value of the list items.
6.	From the given list:
Gadgets = [“Mobile”, “Laptop”, 10.0, “Marker”, 3, 10, “Speakers”, “Camera”, 310.25]
a.	Create separate list of string and numbers,
b.	Sort the string list in ascending and descending order
c.	Sort the string list by length of elements in the list
d.	Sort the numbers list in ascending and descending order
